# Semi-Supervised Learning for Bad Exposures in Large Imaging Surveys

This repository contains the code for the paper with the same title.
The link to the paper is [arXiv](), [OJAP]()
The repo has four directories: `data`, `ext-data`, `src`, and `nb`.

- `ext-data`: the external data provided from DES and DELVE survey.
These are the bad exposures identified by human experts with labels, see
this link (https://github.com/delve-survey/exclude) for more details.
- `data`: the input data from DECaLS (i.e., the bad_expid.txt), and the
data generated by the code in each processing stage.
- `nb`: notebooks used in processing and analysis.
- `src`: the source code used in the inference and analysis of the data.

## `nb` direcotry

The notebooks and purposes are as follows:
- `build_dataset.ipynb`: takes the current available exposures and previous bad exposures information
from `ext-data` and `data` direcotry and builds the `decam_dr10_bad_exp_all.csv`, `decam_dr10_good_exp.csv`,
and `decam_dr10_ooi_oki_images_exist.csv`, which stores the bad and good exposures in dr9 and dr10, and
exposures that have both ooi and oki images.
- `build_train_test_dataset.ipynb`: As the name suggested, this notebook creates train and test datasets using the dataset built from previous notebook. The details of the split are described in the manuscript.
- `train_knn.ipynb`: trains the k Nearest Neighbor (kNN) based on the embeddings generated by the vision transformer.
- `analyze_viz.ipynb`: analyses and visualizes the distribution of the dataset and the embeddings.
- `clustering.ipynb`: This notebook analyses the clustering result of the embeddings and creates the tSNE plots used in the manuscript.
- `dr11_proc.ipynb`: prepares the LS DR11 raw exposures as a complete dataset for the inference and classification workflow.
- `dr11_postproc.ipynb`: analyzes the DR11 exposures inference results. High probability exposures are selected to be visually inspected (VI) by human experts.
- `read_vi_results.ipynb`: reads the VI labels provided by human experts and find those exposures are bad.

## Workflow

To run the whole workflow, one should first run the build dataset notebooks. After that, one will generate embeddings using the `master_eval.py`.

```python
python master_eval.py -dir ${output_dir} \
                    --dset-path /path/to/dr11/sample.csv \ # this is the path to the dataset created by the jupyter notebooks.
                    --dr dr11 \ # DR11 or other data release
                    --cont"
```
A SBATCH file is provided in the src folder as `desi_template_perlmutter_module.slurm`.

Some paths in the notebooks and the source codes should be modified to user's system and configuration.
